README.md, before:

# Surf OOAPI Gateway Configurator

## Development dependencies

You need [leiningen](https://leiningen.org/) and a recent JDK
(preferably [OpenJDK](http://openjdk.java.net/) to build the
application.

The clojure/java library dependencies will be automatically downloaded
when needed by leiningen.

## Run from the REPL in development

Start the REPL connect your IDE, or run

    lein repl

To start the service from the REPL, type `(start!)` at the REPL
prompt. Use `(restart!)` to reload code changes and restart the
service.

Default url is http://localhost:8080/

## Building a stand-alone jar

The service can be build as a standalone jar:

    lein uberjar

This will generate
`target/uberjar/ooapi-gateway-configurator.jar`.

You will need only a JVM (no leiningen) to run the jar:

    java -jar target/uberjar/ooapi-gateway-configurator.jar

## Configuration

This application is mostly configured using environment variables.

### `HTTP_HOST`

The hostname that the web server binds to. Default is "localhost"

### `HTTP_PORT`

The port that the web server binds to. Default is "8080"

### `AUTH_AUTHORIZE_URI`

The OIDC authorize URI to use for initiating an authorization
flow.

For testing, this should be set to
"https://connect.test.surfconext.nl/oidc/authorize". In production,
"https://connect.surfconext.nl/oidc/authorize" should be used.

### `AUTH_ACCESS_TOKEN_URI`

The OIDC token endpoint to use.

For testing, this should be set to
"https://connect.test.surfconext.nl/oidc/token". In production,
"https://connect.surfconext.nl/oidc/token" should be used.

### `AUTH_CLIENT_ID`

The OIDC client ID to use. This should be
"ooapi-gateway-configurator.surf.nl"

### `AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`

The OIDC client secret.

### `AUTH_USER_INFO_URI`

The OIDC userinfo_endpoint to use.

For testing, this should be set to
"https://connect.test.surfconext.nl/oidc/userinfo". In production,
"https://connect.surfconext.nl/oidc/userinfo" should be used.

### `AUTH_REDIRECT_URI`

The callback URI that will be passed to the OIDC server. Make sure
this URI points to the "/oauth2/conext/callback" endpoint.

The default is "/oauth2/conext/callback", which will be resolved to a
full URL based on the request that starts the authentication
process.

The default will not work when the configurator service is behind a
TLS terminating proxy and you need the redirect to use HTTPS. You then
have to specify a full URL to ensure a matching hostname and scheme,
like "https://manage.test.gateway.eduapi.nl/oauth2/conext/callback"

### `AUTH_CONEXT_GROUP_IDS`

A comma separated list of Conext group ids (urns). Access to the
application is granted to users who are members of any of the groups.

For testing, you can use
"urn:collab:group:test.surfconext.nl:nl:surfnet:diensten:beta"

### `GATEWAY_CONFIG_YAML`

The path to the gateway configuration file. This file must exist and
be readable and writable for the application process.

### `PIPELINE`

The name of the pipeline to be configured in the gateway configuration file.

### `WORK_DIR`

Directory where backups and staging information is kept. This
directory needs to exist, be writable and persist through restarts and
reboots. When left unset, the same directory as that of
`GATEWAY_CONFIG_YAML` will be used.

Note: the gateway itself does not need access to this directory.

### `TZ`

Versions are listed with the date and time they are deployed. By
default the system timezone is used to display these timestamps. Use
the `TZ` variable to override this setting.

Note: this is a POSIX environment variable which the JVM honors.

# Configuring logging

## Logback configuration

Logging uses [logback](https://www.baeldung.com/logback). There is an
example configuration in `dev/logback.xml`, which is loaded in
development. When running the configurator jar (in production) you can
specify a logback config file by using

    java -Dlogback.configurationFile=/path/to/logback.xml \
      -jar target/uberjar/ooapi-gateway-configurator.jar

## Logging to Graylog via Docker - infrastructure

In production we aggregate logs (from gateway, configurator and
supporting infrastructure) in Graylog. The ooapi-configurator
repository contains an development setup in
[dev/observability](https://github.com/SURFnet/surf-ooapi-gateway/tree/master/dev/observability)
containing a
[docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/SURFnet/surf-ooapi-gateway/blob/master/dev/observability/docker-compose.yml)
and supporting configuration files that set up Graylog, Prometheus,
and fluentd in a docker network called "observability".

Any docker container running in dev can then use the `fluentd` docker
logging driver to send console output to Graylog. The
[development docker-compose.yml](./docker-compose.yml) has this entry
to set that up:

```
    logging:
      driver: "fluentd"
      options:
        fluentd-address: localhost:24224
        tag: docker.configurator
```

Not that we tag the logging with `docker.configurator` so that we
process the configurator messages separately, see below.

## Logging to Graylog via Docker - GELF output from configurator

The [development Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) for this application
installs [./configurator.production.logback.xml](configurator.production.logback.xml) as the logback
configuration. This sets up JSON-formatted output for all log
messages. The generated JSON data does not contain the required
properties for GELF messages, so some translation is necessary. In
development, we used [a `fluentd` configuration file for
docker](https://github.com/SURFnet/surf-ooapi-gateway/blob/master/dev/observability/fluentconfig/conf/docker.conf).

That contains the following relevant entries specifically for logback
JSON to GELF translation:

```
# Settings for parsing logback JSON logs

# logback uses "message" for the message, but "short_message" is
# required.

[FILTER]
    Name modify
    Match docker.configurator
    Hard_rename message short_message

# Timestamp in json log is confusing graylog and we're already
# receiving a timestamp from docker.

[FILTER]
    Name modify
    Match docker.configurator
    Remove timestamp

# MDC is the Java logging context, pass along all the keys

[FILTER]
    Name nest
    Match docker.configurator
    Operation lift
    Nested_under mdc
```

Note that these entries match the `docker.configurator` tag mentioned
above.

# License

Copyright (C) 2021 - 2022 SURFnet B.V.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Commit message:

Encode proxy options
The proxy options to an endpoint can contain secrets like basic
authentication passwords.  This change set encodes them using 192 bit
AES encrypting.  The key is passed in through a file as a hexadecimal
string.

Note: these changes should also be implemented in the gateway!

README.md, after:

# Surf OOAPI Gateway Configurator

## Development dependencies

You need [leiningen](https://leiningen.org/) and a recent JDK
(preferably [OpenJDK](http://openjdk.java.net/) to build the
application.

The clojure/java library dependencies will be automatically downloaded
when needed by leiningen.

## Run from the REPL in development

Start the REPL connect your IDE, or run

    lein repl

To start the service from the REPL, type `(start!)` at the REPL
prompt. Use `(restart!)` to reload code changes and restart the
service.

Default url is http://localhost:8080/

## Building a stand-alone jar

The service can be build as a standalone jar:

    lein uberjar

This will generate
`target/uberjar/ooapi-gateway-configurator.jar`.

You will need only a JVM (no leiningen) to run the jar:

    java -jar target/uberjar/ooapi-gateway-configurator.jar

## Configuration

This application is mostly configured using environment variables.

### `HTTP_HOST`

The hostname that the web server binds to. Default is "localhost"

### `HTTP_PORT`

The port that the web server binds to. Default is "8080"

### `AUTH_AUTHORIZE_URI`

The OIDC authorize URI to use for initiating an authorization
flow.

For testing, this should be set to
"https://connect.test.surfconext.nl/oidc/authorize". In production,
"https://connect.surfconext.nl/oidc/authorize" should be used.

### `AUTH_ACCESS_TOKEN_URI`

The OIDC token endpoint to use.

For testing, this should be set to
"https://connect.test.surfconext.nl/oidc/token". In production,
"https://connect.surfconext.nl/oidc/token" should be used.

### `AUTH_CLIENT_ID`

The OIDC client ID to use. This should be
"ooapi-gateway-configurator.surf.nl"

### `AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`

The OIDC client secret.

### `AUTH_USER_INFO_URI`

The OIDC userinfo_endpoint to use.

For testing, this should be set to
"https://connect.test.surfconext.nl/oidc/userinfo". In production,
"https://connect.surfconext.nl/oidc/userinfo" should be used.

### `AUTH_REDIRECT_URI`

The callback URI that will be passed to the OIDC server. Make sure
this URI points to the "/oauth2/conext/callback" endpoint.

The default is "/oauth2/conext/callback", which will be resolved to a
full URL based on the request that starts the authentication
process.

The default will not work when the configurator service is behind a
TLS terminating proxy and you need the redirect to use HTTPS. You then
have to specify a full URL to ensure a matching hostname and scheme,
like "https://manage.test.gateway.eduapi.nl/oauth2/conext/callback"

### `AUTH_CONEXT_GROUP_IDS`

A comma separated list of Conext group ids (urns). Access to the
application is granted to users who are members of any of the groups.

For testing, you can use
"urn:collab:group:test.surfconext.nl:nl:surfnet:diensten:beta"

### `GATEWAY_CONFIG_YAML`

The path to the gateway configuration file. This file must exist and
be readable and writable for the application process.

### `SECRETS_KEY_FILE`

Path to a file containing a 192 bit hexadecimal secret used for encoding and decoding proxy options.

### `PIPELINE`

The name of the pipeline to be configured in the gateway configuration file.

### `WORK_DIR`

Directory where backups and staging information is kept. This
directory needs to exist, be writable and persist through restarts and
reboots. When left unset, the same directory as that of
`GATEWAY_CONFIG_YAML` will be used.

Note: the gateway itself does not need access to this directory.

### `TZ`

Versions are listed with the date and time they are deployed. By
default the system timezone is used to display these timestamps. Use
the `TZ` variable to override this setting.

Note: this is a POSIX environment variable which the JVM honors.

# Configuring logging

## Logback configuration

Logging uses [logback](https://www.baeldung.com/logback). There is an
example configuration in `dev/logback.xml`, which is loaded in
development. When running the configurator jar (in production) you can
specify a logback config file by using

    java -Dlogback.configurationFile=/path/to/logback.xml \
      -jar target/uberjar/ooapi-gateway-configurator.jar

## Logging to Graylog via Docker - infrastructure

In production we aggregate logs (from gateway, configurator and
supporting infrastructure) in Graylog. The ooapi-configurator
repository contains an development setup in
[dev/observability](https://github.com/SURFnet/surf-ooapi-gateway/tree/master/dev/observability)
containing a
[docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/SURFnet/surf-ooapi-gateway/blob/master/dev/observability/docker-compose.yml)
and supporting configuration files that set up Graylog, Prometheus,
and fluentd in a docker network called "observability".

Any docker container running in dev can then use the `fluentd` docker
logging driver to send console output to Graylog. The
[development docker-compose.yml](./docker-compose.yml) has this entry
to set that up:

```
    logging:
      driver: "fluentd"
      options:
        fluentd-address: localhost:24224
        tag: docker.configurator
```

Not that we tag the logging with `docker.configurator` so that we
process the configurator messages separately, see below.

## Logging to Graylog via Docker - GELF output from configurator

The [development Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) for this application
installs [./configurator.production.logback.xml](configurator.production.logback.xml) as the logback
configuration. This sets up JSON-formatted output for all log
messages. The generated JSON data does not contain the required
properties for GELF messages, so some translation is necessary. In
development, we used [a `fluentd` configuration file for
docker](https://github.com/SURFnet/surf-ooapi-gateway/blob/master/dev/observability/fluentconfig/conf/docker.conf).

That contains the following relevant entries specifically for logback
JSON to GELF translation:

```
# Settings for parsing logback JSON logs

# logback uses "message" for the message, but "short_message" is
# required.

[FILTER]
    Name modify
    Match docker.configurator
    Hard_rename message short_message

# Timestamp in json log is confusing graylog and we're already
# receiving a timestamp from docker.

[FILTER]
    Name modify
    Match docker.configurator
    Remove timestamp

# MDC is the Java logging context, pass along all the keys

[FILTER]
    Name nest
    Match docker.configurator
    Operation lift
    Nested_under mdc
```

Note that these entries match the `docker.configurator` tag mentioned
above.

# License

Copyright (C) 2021 - 2023 SURFnet B.V.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
